29

insert into review values (12, 29, 'related', 'Highly related', "Learning from instruction is an important technique for broad intelligence.");
insert into review values (12, 29, 'extension', 'Reasonable extension', "This is hard to gauge as key related work is omitted or not treated appropriately. PLOW is billed as including learning from instruction yet the authors as from 'example, observation or orientation'. Tailor (Blythe 05) also makes use of explicit instruction, though not situated in a current task. You should should explain the novelty of this approach in the context of those systems. It should also be compared to work in learning by observation as I argue and reference below.");
insert into review values (12, 29, 'claims', 'Clear claims', "The paper states that the authors seek a general approach to learning by instruction in cognitive systems and lays out a set of subproblems that in their view are important for this.");
insert into review values (12, 29, 'convincing', 'Somewhat convincing', "A general framework that does not take into account various skill
levels of human instructors or at least explain its assumptions about
this also reduces credibility. Few things in the environment will be
more variable than the capabilities of the human instructors.

The use of a classical planning domain removes many problems that
should be at the heart of learning by instruction, including
understanding instructions where objects are ambiguous and
action sequences are not provably correct.

The constraint that instructions are sequences of actions is also
limiting and unfortunately makes the problem addressed isomorphic to
learning by demonstration.

Other key advantages of instruction appear to be excluded by this
framework, for example that human trainers can inform the system about
gaps in knowledge before it becomes aware through potentially costly
error, and that the trainer can contribute to the
transfer/generalization process through the same interface.");

insert into review values (12, 29, 'effective', 'Somewhat effective', "This is a well-written paper, but does not address other work in
learning by instruction adequately, as I mention above. Since the constrained problem is
essentially learning by observation in classical planning, work in
this area should be compared, including Wang 95 and Lapdog (Gervasio et al)");

insert into review values (12, 29, 'comment', '', '');

insert into review values (12, 29, 'meeting', 'Accept as talk', '');

insert into review values (12, 29, 'journal', 'Reject paper', "This is a promising direction, but doesn't yet solve an interesting
part of learning by instruction. It is isomorphic to learning by
demonstration since the 'instruction' is just a sequence of actions.");