user: 19
paper: 60

Review on "Spatial Computing: Towards Designing a Right-Brain Type Architecture" (Freksa)

(1) Does the paper address issues related to aspects of human-level intelligence, complex cognition, or similar topics? Does it discuss these issues from a cognitive systems perspective?

Highly related

Comment: 
Issues of spatial computation and spatial reasoning are cognitively highly relevant. Although I think that the title seems to be quite metaphorical, 
the approach relates spatial computation to a broad range of abilities ranging from perception to representation and reasoning. Furthermore, the idea
of a cognitive substrate clearly puts the paper in the center of human-level intelligence and complex cognition. 


(2) Do the authors present a problem or approach that extends or clarifies the capabilities of cognitive systems, or increase our understanding of their 
operation, in substantial ways?

Substantial extension

Comment: 
The paper is more an overview paper and does not primarily present new  insights. 
It draws some interesting and cognitively highly relevant conclusions from prior research of the author. In particular, 
with respect to spatial computations the paper clarifies many issues that range from frameworks for qualitative spatial reasoning via
conceptual neighbourhood relations to spatial configurations and concrete vs. abstract computation. 


(3) Does the paper make clear claims about the approach to cognitive systems? Such claims can take many forms, but they should be stated unambiguously in accessible language.

Vague claims

Comment: 
The paper makes claims about cognitive systems, in particular, one should mention the idea of a spatio-temporal substrate of cognitive representations in this
context. Nevertheless, this claim should be more clearly argued for and elaborated. It is, for example, not clear to me how this substrate can be precisely 
used for facilitating other representations. Furthermore it should be related to other approaches of "cognitive substrate". 
For example, Nick Cassimatis' work on cognitive substrate could be mentioned in this context or (taken from the field of computational linguistics) 
Jerry Hobbs' idea of core abstract theories.


(4) Do the authors present convincing evidence that supports their claims? Such evidence can take different forms, but it should lead a reasonable person to 
conclude the claims are correct or plausible.

Somewhat convincing

Comment: 
I think that, in particular, for the general claims about cognition the paper should provide a more careful and clearer support. 
Furthermore, an interesting point to elaborate on would be the sketched evaluation scenario sketched in the section "Conclusion and Outlook".


(5) Does the paper's writing and organization present its ideas to readers effectively? Can moderately informed readers understand the main 
contributions and reconstruct the results if desired?

Very effective

Comment: 
The overall structure seems to be reasonable. I think that a moderately informed reader can understand the various approaches towards
spatial cognition. Nevertheless, some tables (e.g. Fig. 2, Fig. 6 and 7) should be re-designed and similarly 
formatted.


(6) Do you have other comments that support your overall evaluation or do you have detailed suggestions for improving the paper?


(7) Do you think the paper should be presented at the symposium as a talk, as a poster, or not at all? Both talks and posters will appear in the AAAI technical report for the meeting.

Accept as talk

Comment: 

(8) Do you think the authors should be invited to publish their paper in the journal Advances in Cognitive Systems? If you favor conditional acceptance, please itemize the 
changes necessary for journal publication.

Accept conditionally

Comment: 
I think that for Journal publication the paper needs some improvements along the lines of the remarks above. In particular, the consequences for general cognition 
that the author draws from spatial computations should be elaborated on. 
